For my first blog, I'd like to talk about the concept of morality in philosophy. For all purposes, ethics and morality are going to be used with the same meaning, 
"principles concerning the distinction between right and wrong or good and bad behavior". In philosophy, there are 2 main kinds of ethics, metaethics, which ask questions like "Why is something wrong", and "What does good mean?", and normative ethics, which ask questions like "Is lying bad?", "Is the murder of a murderer wrong?". I will begin this post with an introduction to metaethics, and the different views philosophers have had over year.

Metaethics discussions have been happening ever since the start of philosophy, beginning in Plato's era, with one of the most famous examples being his Euthyphro dialogue, which begs the question "Are things good because God says they’re good, or does God say they’re good because they’re good?", an example of a metaethical question, trying to find the origin of the ethical term good. I will not answer this question, but the main idea is that metaethics have concerned philosophers since it's beginning, and for a good reason. I would like to help the reader find out what his metaethical position is with this blog, so let's go over it.

Do moral properties, such as bad, good, right, wrong, exist outside of our mind? Are they something that exist in the universe, and we just discovered? Do they exist independently out of us, such in a way, that if all humanity was to die, good would still be good, and bad would still be bad? If your answer was Yes to these questions, you are considered a moral realist, a person who thinks moral properties exist outside of our perception of them. If you answer no, you are a moral non realist, someone who thinks that moral properties are human constructs, that don't mean anything outside of our perception or society. They were invented as a way for us to be able to function as a group, and to recognize which actions are helpful, and which actions are not.

If you are a moral realist, keep reading this, if you're a moral non realist, skip to the next paragraph. Moral realism itself also has 2 main position, moral naturalism and moral non-naturalism. Moral naturalism assesses that moral properties can be explained by facts about the world, just like physics or biology. These facts are matter of empirical evidence, and can be observed and be subject to scientific research, just like how gravity is for example. Example of moral naturalism positions are utilitarianism, where good or right actions are those that maximize the happiness for the most amount of people. In the famous trolley problem, where you have the option to pull a lever, and so divert the train from killing 5 people, to now only killing one, an utilitarian would pull it in no time. Moral non realism is a position that assesses that moral properties can't be empirically found, and so cannot be measured or observed. Moral non naturalism claims that we know moral facts through intuition and reason, for most people, violence feels wrong or bad, so violence IS wrong or bad. G.E. Moore, a famous ethical philosopher, is famous for arguing that terms like "good" cannot be defined using natural terms, like happiness or pleasure (which is what a moral naturalist would do).

If you are a moral non-realist, you have to decide if you are either a cognitive or non-cognitive one. Do you consider moral judgements to be a matter of truth? When I say blood is red and murder is wrong, do they both have the same amount of truth to it? If you think that moral judgements are indeed a matter of truth, you would be a moral relativist or error theorist. An error theorist considers that, since no moral properties are actually true, every moral judgement is false, since, for example, "murder is wrong", you need wrong to actually be something, but if you are a moral non realist, you don't think wrong means anything, "murder is wrong" is a false sentence, just like any moral statement. A moral relativist thinks that morality works withing a culture or a society's framework, and it's only true or false in that framework, not in any objective sense. If you think moral statements don't talk about any matter of truth, you would be considered a non cognitivist. A moral non cognitivist considers that when we make moral statements, we just express our opinion, so "Murder is wrong" is the same as "Boo murder!!", or the same as "Don't murder people!". 

When it comes to my own personal opinion and thoughts, I would consider myself and error theorist. I am currently reading J.L. Mackie's "Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong", which is a book where the term "Error theory" was invented, at least in the metaethical sense. I personally agree with it, as I don't see morals as being nothing more than a human construct that helps us maintain our communities and evolve as a society. We need terms like good and wrong to be able to progress. I am fairly new to the different moral positions myself though, and definitely open to change, whether it be to moral realism or non cognitivism.

I hope you had a nice time reading this, and was able to find your own position on this subject, in my next blog I will definitely talk about error theory more in depth, and explain why I resonate with that position so much. This is all for today, have a nice day!
